Well, good morning. Oh, we've got a pile
of comments just come in. Good morning
everybody. Uh, welcome to the live
stream today with myself and Jeffrey
from Lightbox. As the kind of topic
suggests with the sort of thumbnail and
things else we've been talking about
sort of AI, the future of WordPress and
some of the things that are being
predicted for where web design in
general and websites is actually going.
Right,
let me just get rid of that. Sorry about
that. You had a sort of a strange loop
there. which had YouTube in the
background. They decided they want to
pop up as well. So, if everybody could
let me know if you can hear and see and
everything sounds okay and looks okay,
that would be fantastic. But, um
Jeffrey, good to see you this evening
for you, I think, isn't it? You're seven
hours ahead of me. So, how are you?
>> Yeah, doing well. Doing well. Good to
see you, too. Good to connect. Uh thank
you for having me on. Definitely looking
forward to this conversation.
>> Hey, it's it's not it's going to be the
first of many. I hope I think uh where
we've been talking offline we've got a
lot of things I think in common with how
we see things um and how we sort of see
the future and stuff like that. So
today's conversation for anybody that
may just be jumping on kind of like out
of the blue because you've seen the live
stream pop up we want to talk about AI
its impact the future of web design the
future of websites in general and some
of the kind of things that are being
sort of predicted with regards to that.
myself and Jeffrey had a couple of
conversations sort of like offline as it
were and um I think we've got some
interesting sort of points to sort of
talk about today. But I think let's
start off with the very broad picture
and I'm sure we'll start to sort of hone
things down a little bit. But as always,
if you got any comments or questions,
please drop those in the comments
section. If it's a question, if you can
start it with #Q so I know it's a
question, it'll make it a lot easier
then for us to take a look at answer as
many questions as we can. But I think
the conversation and the topic we talked
about the other day which is probably
broader than maybe some people are
thinking is predictions for there may
not actually be websites in the way that
we know it within the next let's say two
years. I mean you read that article and
and you sort of probably know a little
bit more about it. So I'm going to hand
it over to you to sort of so you can
kind of give the lowdown and let's have
a sort of chat about what we think with
regards to that side of things. So over
to you sir.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I got a lot of thought and
stuff, but uh by the way, love the
tombstone on the thumbnail. I thought
that was pretty cool. Like it right
there. And this wasn't my
>> Thank you, AI. See, didn't even have to
hire a graphic designer. And this is, I
guess,
>> the whole point of everything. Uh now,
this isn't from me. This is just what I
heard. A friend of mine, uh we had a big
conversation. He's like really big into
AI. He's building out his company sites
and replet where he used to actually
hire us to build their websites and you
know he's really deep into the AI rabbit
hole and we had a conversation and when
I told him we're still building websites
with WordPress he looked at me surprised
he's like WordPress is still around like
that was his like that was genuinely how
he felt and then in that conversation he
mentioned that he was talking with
somebody running an AI agency gency out
this way and that they told him in a
year's time websites will no longer be
needed or maybe even existing and yeah
that wasn't me but I thought like that
was uh
I guess where the tombstone came from
and where I guess a big overview of a
lot of this but uh what are your
thoughts on that cuz my jaw hit the
floor and I was ready to like kick over
chairs like what are you talking about
you know [laughter]
>> look since we talked about this. I've
sort of thought about it a few times and
I think the thing that's kind of always
overlooked when you see these
predictions of of the future of AI and
other things is human nature. You know,
we're in a tech industry. We're in in
kind of this this web design bubble,
this AI bubble. You know, maybe we're
seeing things a little different to your
typical person. So, I don't see it
disappearing in that way that quickly.
Yes, in the future absolutely because
technologies, the way we interact with
things are going to change. That's just
nature of technology. But we always seem
to overlook human nature and people are
not going to suddenly go, "Oh, the
internet. I'm not going to bother with
websites anymore. I'm going to use a
completely different way of of
searching." like AI for example, you
know, people like us that are used to
the technology will pick up our phones
and we'll go on to chat GPT or claude
and things like that and we'll we'll ask
it to do research for us. We'll ask it
for questions. You know, we start to get
ads or we can buy things via things like
chat GPT. But I still think that's going
to take more than the next two years
before before people adopt that side of
things. Think of your parents. Think of
your grandparents. Think of people you
know that are maybe a little bit older,
maybe not so techsavvy or in countries
that don't have access to the same
technologies that we do in the western
sort of world where we're used to it
having, you know, high speeded sort of
internet, having uh high-spec phones,
computers, laptops, all those kinds of
things. I honestly think at some point
it will change, but I don't think it's
going to be this drastic kind of like
websites will disappear in two years
time. I just don't see that happening. I
just don't think it it can happen that
quickly. At some point, yes, probably.
But I mean, what do you think? I mean,
you've obviously given it some thought
as well. What are your thoughts on how
you see things changing?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, at first when I
hear predictions like that or when I see
these big changes or hear people talking
about them, my first instinct is to
fight against them. And I think that's a
human nature side of things. And that's
what I'm seeing a lot of. And it's
something though too, like for web
design specifically, I have been looking
at these changes now since early last
year because I've been seeing the
writing on the wall that it's definitely
evolving. Web designers are no longer
going to get away doing the same thing
that they were doing 3, four years ago,
3, four years in the future. Like, we
have to evolve. And it's the reason why
I'm deep in is because I teach web
design. And I want to be able to teach
and be in it with everyone because we're
all in this state of uncertainty right
now cuz we don't know what it's going to
be like three or four years from now.
But I also feel like just the human
nature of things. I see it across even
different industries. Anytime you
mention like this change like for an
example there was a brilliant video that
just came out. Uh it was a designer. She
is like the lead designer I believe of
Claude code or of cursor. one of those,
I think it was Claude, but she also led
the design for Fig Jam. She led the
design for Dropbox, like really high
credentials and achievements. And she
was talking about the web design process
as we knew it, as we know it is no
longer the norm. And I went to the
comments and just the temperature of it
is that first human reaction, which is
we still need it. We still need it. We
still need it. We can't change. you know
that resist to change and uh I think
that the writing is on the wall you know
that things are changing and we're
seeing it across the board and you know
you and I even talk like you know I was
seeing it as far as like content as far
as like the numbers and as far as a lot
of other things and now when I'm looking
in under other industries as well it's
the same graphic design motion design
even marketing and other areas I think
that this is generally across Ross the
board right now we're seeing this change
and so yeah I know I'm I'm kind of like
going on but you know to sum it up when
I heard that you know or something
outrageous like websites won't be around
for a year
I feel the human nature to react against
it but then I got to step back and kind
of do a thought experiment like what
would that look like and then start to
play that out and yeah that's where I'm
at with it. Yeah, you know, we've got to
kind of consider how people are
traditionally used to interacting with
that kind of technology, you know,
buying online, just finding information
and stuff. And that will change. There's
no doubt about it. But I think you can
definitely see like for example, look at
Google as a search engine. Forget about
the other things they do, but as a
search engine where they AI is at the
top. Now, I don't know if you were the
same as me, but you kind of get you look
at that and you ignore it like you
ignore the ads underneath it. you now
start to look lower down to find the
real information as opposed to the AI
information which by its very nature is
prone to being incorrect. You know, I
was I did a a bit of sort of deep
research yesterday, the day before with
regards to pods and ACF Pro and ACF, and
one of the first things it came back
with was that advanced custom fields
doesn't create custom post types and
doesn't create custom taxonomies, which
we know it does and has done for the
last 18 months. So, if you take that
information on board and you were doing
this without checking that, it's wrong.
Completely and utly blatantly wrong. And
that's the deep research which is going
and and sort of researching in a much
more focused way. So we we we have to
kind of get to the point where I think
AI is more trustworthy in regards to the
information it actually pulls up because
when it's scraping the internet, I mean,
if you consider things like Reddit, you
consider things like um Wikipedia and so
on, anything that allows humans to edit
the content and add the content and
things on there is always going to be
prone to misinformation. And if AI is
scraping that, then it's also prone to
coming back with the wrong information.
So unless we see a change in that
regards, I think, and I'm sure we will,
but when it's having information that's
as broad as the internet, where we can
have any kind of thing put on the
internet, there's always the scope for
it to be very wrong. And we've already
seen that things like Grock where has
come back with like there had
conversations there been things on there
which has been very very dubious with
the replies and responses and things has
come back with. I think all these things
help put people off wanting to trust AI
and
I think that's the same when it comes to
a lot of other things you do like with
the code side of things. You know the
vibe coding and using it to generate
code. Is it a bad thing? Not if you know
what you're looking for. In the same way
that like if you ask one of the AI tools
to design a website for you, as a
designer, you look at it a much more
critically and you look at the
shortcomings of it and what it can and
can't do. And I think that's the same
thing across the board with AI. And
because it's being sort of pushed so
heavily and it's it's everywhere and
it's being touted as the next big thing,
people are naturally going to jump on
board and try to run with it. And I've
said this in previous sort of
conversations and live streams and
stuff. I think we're in the wild west
right now of AI. I think we are there's
no legislation there to to govern and
control it. There's no laws there. We'll
see that change. We've seen copyright
cases and stuff come up and I think
we're going to see a lot more things
like that.
So at the moment I think AI is kind of
everywhere and in everything and in a
lot of cases it doesn't necessarily make
sense.
But I think that's going to change. I
think that will smooth out and we'll
start to see a lot of this stuff will
just fall by the wayside because it's
it's crap. It just isn't worth, you
know, your time and your investment into
it. So,
I'm kind of I'm interested to see where
it goes, but I also I'm quite skeptical
with what it's going to be like in the
next 24 months. So, that's my kind of
take on it right now.
>> Um, what about you? I'm excited to see
where things go. I mean, to me, I just
love chaos by nature. It's like, give me
something that's easy and comfortable
and, you know, I fall apart, but you go
ahead and disrupt the world, I thrive.
But that's also because, you know, I I
think a big part of like my past and,
you know, just my whole journey and
stuff made me this way. But also know
that there's opportunity in chaos when
everything does get flipped up around
and you know there's also a lot of you
know downsides with chaos. You know most
do fail but that's the way it is with
businesses as well. When businesses
start and a web designer who is either
freelancing or starting an agency is not
an exclusion to the rule of running a
business. you know 80% of them fail
within the first two years and after
that another like something like 80% of
the last 20% fail like in the next year
or two you know just a crazy statistic
and I remember seeing it when we first
started the building businesses with
Elementor
Facebook group we had a signup and for
years we collected signups but we never
did anything we never really launched a
newsletter and then like three years
later launched a newsletter and saw how
many uh bounce emails we got with agency
names on it and those websites no longer
exist and for me that was just a big
like like just a big shock like the
reality wow like a lot don't make it
>> but for those who are still here and
still want to make it or even start I
think we have to start looking how to
evolve and do things differently so we
can secure a future for ourselves things
like vibe coding things like the tools
that we We got to learn how to utilize
these things. There's no if we resist
it, we're we're just going to be another
Blockbuster who says, "No, nobody wants
to stream videos or have them delivered
to you. People want to come to our shop.
They want, you know, and we all know the
story of what happens when we resist
that."
You know, like we have to do more when
it comes to solving client problems and
playing a bigger role than just building
a website, just designing it. We have to
get more involved with the project
management, more involved even with
engineering at times and more involved
helping out with other solutions. And
the way to do it is we got to start to
utilize AI tools within our workflow.
>> Absolutely. I mean, I know again we've
been talking and this this going to kind
of come up quite a lot of things through
this live stream is that you and I have
talked quite a lot about various
different things. We had a two-hour
conversation the other day that was
going to be like 10 minutes and two
hours later we're still talking. Um,
[laughter]
but I I I 100% agree with you and I know
that you were looking at putting content
together in the same kind of vein I've
been putting content together on how you
move beyond the web design side of
things and how you make yourself a
growth partner with businesses because
building a website is a skill that we've
learned over the years, but as we see AI
is going to take a big chunk of that
away.
There's going to still be, I think, an
involvement from people that have better
design skills, but AI is going to take
that. No, no two ways about it. And as
long as you can understand how to prompt
the AI to get what you want, that side
of things is going to be technically
taken care of. So, we're going to kind
of take that out the equation. So, I
think as a as a growth partner, this is
where you start looking at the strategy
behind the company and how you can help
them realize their goals. you know
whether that's generating more leads,
generating more income, whatever it is.
And you know that takes on many
different forms. We've talked about
automation, you talk about, you know,
building a website is just the technical
side of things. You know, building
building a brick wall could technically
be the same skills as building a 50story
tower block. But the reality is there's
a lot more involved going from one to
the other. And I think the same thing
goes here is that the technical side of
things of building a website is one
thing, but the understanding how to
build an effective website, how to
optimize it for the client, whether you
do it or AI does it, but you might be
the one that's prompting it to do all
that. That's where your skills and I
think that's where your experience over
the last 10, 15, 20 years of actually
running a business, working with
clients, building websites,
understanding the the sort of customer
journey, embracing those new
technologies. It will change, you know,
but I think that's where most web
designers need to be in the next, let's
just say, five years because the
technical building of website, as you've
seen yourself, and I know we talked to
other people about it, you can get it to
create quite complex database driven
sites and when you're getting sort of
sites like Bolt and Lovable and things
like that where they no longer just
being that kind of code interface and
they're using external databases and
things, once that all becomes internal,
ized where security can become a lot
more rigid and understanding its
internal structure means that they can
create much better, much more optimized
websites with cleaner code because
they're not going to five or six
different external services that are out
of their control. the code side of
things and the scope for what you can
build is going to grow exponentially
which again is going to take away from
those more sort of medium to higher
level web designers, web coders,
developers, whatever. I think that's
going to take that's going to take their
jobs. So that's again I think where
becoming a growth partner, becoming a
part of the business to help the
businesses, your clients grow and become
successful and probably embrace AI in
multiple different ways. That's going to
come down to someone like yourself or an
agency that you build that relationship
up with them and bringing them up
through the next couple of years,
embracing AI into their businesses and
showing them how they can utilize it and
using someone like yourself to to set up
and talk to all the systems that they're
currently using. I think that's where we
are going to be as web designers. You
know, we'll probably change that
terminology. I definitely think that's
where the in immediate future is going
to go.
Yeah. And that's where we have
opportunity for those of us who have
been doing this already for a while. We
have that experience and understand
client problems and understand a bit
more. And anybody who let's say a
developer developer has a specific
skill. Now tools could go ahead and
write the code and do the development.
But still that developer with that skill
if they had the right mindset and frame
it right and really look and and like
like realize hey you know things are
changing I got to change and adapt now
too they could take that and do more for
an example let's say you got a client
and they need help putting their data
together to understand the metrics not
like taking people's data anything like
that but like gathering the data how is
this working in their company how is
this how much time is spent on this all
those different little metrics that you
know people who could spread over that
could look at numbers and make really
big sense of where to optimize a
business you know a developer who has
been working on WordPress websites
understands PHP understands some code
they could go in now and work with
Python like I don't know Python but I
understand how it works and I understand
the directions to go in which puts me
and others also in a situation who has
worked in web development for some time
to utilize these tools to do things they
never would have thought of doing would
have been scared to hire someone and
manage them to do it. So it's those kind
of things we got to look at and you know
like
if we look at history and it's a reason
why I like reading so much business
books because a lot of them pack stories
about changes in the past and I love
when I hear about what went on in the
past like the industrial revolution and
how you know changes and you know like
the assembly line or things like that
how it just takes over like jobs that
people had they felt secure in all of a
sudden were gone. And you could either
do one of two things in those
situations. Well, actually back then you
couldn't. So, we're really lucky right
now cuz back then you really couldn't.
Like they just came in and all of a
sudden your profession is gone. Like we
don't need your profession anymore.
You're pretty much stuck. We are so
fortunate today that we are not in that
position. We could just like let's take
what we have and let's go where we could
apply what we did and start to learn
something. But we got to start learning
right now. And you know, that's one
thing I'm really hoping conversations
like this could do. It's like first off,
uh we we said this in the beginning,
like I don't know what's going to
happen. My opinions right now, they're
like a roller coaster because I'm just
learning as well. I'm evolving and I'm
just trying to be open because I know
even myself where I'm at, I have to be
flexible and ready to pivot pivot
multiple times because I don't know
where things are going to go. And I'm
hoping that this conversation could
steer
and help some designers, some
developers, those of us in the WordPress
space to, you know, I guess
change the mindset around first being,
you know, fear-based that this isn't
going to happen, anti- ai,
uh, and also just a mindset of, you
know, like I'm not going to learn this.
I think for too long a lot of old-timers
have been stuck doing the same thing and
it's really hard to tell them they got
to change. Like do you know somebody
who's old and stubborn and stuck in
their ways? Like this has to be done
this way and if it ain't done this way,
you know, you're a scrub, you know, that
type of you know and uh
>> we that's not going to help, you know,
get an individual to the next step. It's
it's not you know we we people could say
you becoming an architect of your own
demise by embracing it and so on but
then I think you can go one of two ways
there. You could either embrace it with
an open mind and think right how can I
utilize this and improve my chances of
continuing in a career or do I just
completely buck against it and hope it
goes away which it's not going to. But
before we move on because another
question I want to ask provide I don't
remember where it is. Um Toby come up
with a a good question.
So I'm going to put this over to you and
then I'll say where I am. So question
for for us. Does it affect your zeal to
make new videos? Again this is something
we talked about the other day. How do
you feel like with everything the sort
of state of flux that we're in at the
moment? How do you feel about creating
new content? Is it kind of you feel like
is it really worth it? Are people going
to watch this? Or are you kind of got a
a sort of like a real passion for
working through understanding and
explaining that to people that maybe are
that sort of that more stubborn
individual that doesn't want to learn it
or doesn't have the time to invest in in
learning it in a more manual kind of
way?
>> Man, that's a good question. Really good
question, Toby. Uh you want me to
answer?
>> Yeah, go for it, man.
>> Yeah. Uh, I mean, yeah, it's had an
effect on me, you know, like
I thought I did something wrong. My
numbers, like numbers just dropped, you
know, and I and I'm I'm like, what
happened? You know, did I take too much
time off during the holidays? Did this
thing change it? Did me creating content
about this change it? And uh, you know,
I'm like, okay, it's all good. Let's
just come back and grind away and have
fun with it. And then it is hard when
you know I'll spend two to three days on
a video, put a lot of work into it. Like
it's not something to just record in 30
minutes and push live. Like there's a
lot of work that goes into it and then
it's like crickets. And then I'm like
like is there something wrong with me?
Is it worth it? And you know, those
moments come in and I'm sure like like
I'm just like everybody else feeling
this thing, you know, and uh
just got to step back. And what I did
personally is I I stepped back out of
it. I I talked to some good people like
you. You know, I I'm fortunate to have
some good friends inside of this space
and uh I remembered my mission, why I'm
doing this, you know, and the mission is
to help web designers build better lives
for themselves because web design has
given me a life I never could have
dreamt of and I just want to see other
people get it. And so remembering the
mission, forgetting about the numbers
and instead focusing on the mission
helps me out. But it also is getting me
to look at things. I I'm just going to
I'm just going to piggyback on this and
just kind of add to it. Uh because
I focus so much on the change that's
coming to web designers and in the web
design industry. And I'm focusing so
much because I want to help other web
designers navigate through this change
that I failed to see the change in what
I'm doing as well. And it was a hard
shock and I felt the same thing that
everybody felt. You know, I will watch a
video somebody saying like it's over
for, you know, for what I'm doing and
like wait, no, it can't be. You know,
but then I just had I have to do the
same. And that was my like aha moment
like holy this is everybody in our
you know in in all the different areas
not just web design development
WordPress it's all of us.
>> It is and to sort of go back to what
you're saying there but excuse me
[clears throat] the numbers and stuff I
I mean we've got Toby in here you've got
Iran in here as well. I mean you guys
let us know in the in the comments
section below. How have you seen your
numbers over the last let's just say 12
months? you know your your YouTube
numbers, views, those kinds of things.
How have you seen that improve,
flatline, drop, you know, let us know
because I agree with you, it it can be
very difficult, but I think it depends
what you're in it for. I mean, from my
point of view, I was a teacher for 10
years, you know, I taught uh it to
adults uh before I went off and
actually, you know, had my own agency
kind of thing. And I've done freelancing
and stuff like that. So I spent like 15
years doing that side of things. So I've
done both sides of it. But I've always
loved teaching and I've taught music
production. I've taught digital
photography. I teach, you know, the web
design side of things. WordPress and web
design is the one that's kind of stuck
with me. But I did the other ones for a
couple of years as well because I enjoy
it, you know, and maybe I should I could
have been more intentional about how
I've created content because I learn
something. I enjoy something and I want
to tell other people how to do it. You
know, if I've stumbled on things and if
I've kind of like, oh, this this didn't
work the way I want to and I've
struggled through it and I've had to do
research to find the the way to get it
to work. And I want other people to not
have that struggle. They can easily just
go on and they can see watch my video,
spend 20 minutes on that video, and
they've saved themselves two days worth
of of stress in how to get something to
work. And I don't see that changing.
Will the topics change? Yeah. It's the
whole reason why I cover things like uh
I do cover AI. I cover you know sort of
automation AI automation and stuff like
that because I think this is an area
that more freelancers more agencies and
things need to concentrate on because I
think interim period that's where
our jobs are going to go. I say our jobs
I don't really do this as a living
anymore. Thankfully I've kind of like
that side of my career is I've wound
that down.
But if I wasn't, if I was still working
like that, that's what I would be
focusing right now. I wouldn't be
focusing on trying to find customers and
clients to to build websites for them.
I'd be looking at the ones who already
have and how can I connect them up to
other services to help their businesses
grow, become streamlined, sell more,
whatever it is that their business
actually is in. That's where I would be
focusing. And
>> yeah, I mean the numbers, yeah, they are
frustrating when you kind of see the
numbers not as high as you used to, you
know, but again AI is going to change
it, but you can people complain about
the algorithm on YouTube, but the
reality of it is less people are
spending time looking to get into the
web design career, which means that less
people are going to be searching for
lower level content, which means that
the market there is going to be less.
You can see that when you release
different content. you content on AI,
for example. I did one on Nano Banana
when it was kind of just come out of
beta or beta and I mean that video in
the space of about a week or two got
30,000 views. You try getting that with
a WordPress video, you just don't get
it. You might get over a period of time,
but unless you're covering something
very very specific that's very new and a
lot of people are interested in, you
don't get those numbers on there. You
simply don't. So, it can be frustrating
when you kind of get sucked into the
YouTube numbers game. And it's very easy
to get sucked into that. I'm sure
everybody that creates content you
either has done, will do, or are already
in that that phase right now. But you
will go beyond that. You have to go
beyond that because otherwise you'll
stay awake at night. you'll wake up
stressing and all those things suck and
they'll suck the life and the creativity
out of you before you even realize it.
So if you are in that position right
now, move past it. Look at other ways of
generating revenue so you don't focus on
that becoming your sole kind of income
because once you do that, it becomes
very stressful and it's going to make
much much more difficult these days as
well. But hopefully Toby, that's
answered your question. But the next
thing I want to say and I put this over
to you first and I'll come back to what
what I think. So we're talking about you
know web designers and web developers
and things like that or web design in
general changing or going away. Where do
you see WordPress over the next couple
of years? Do you think in in let's say
27 28 that WordPress is going to be
still powering 40 odd% of the internet?
>> No, not 40%. You know, I think it'll
still be powering a high majority, but I
don't know about 40%.
Uh,
I think the numbers are declining right
now for WordPress in general. Uh, market
shares are just going to other places.
Wix Studio,
>> Framer, Web Flow, you know, uh, for
e-commerce still Shopify is the stronger
uh, stronger solution. But God, two
years ago, two years from now, I don't
know. It all depends. I mean, will Matt
do another Matt? [laughter] You know,
like what what's going I mean I mean
there's so many there's so much
uncertainty and uh n just playing
around. I know, [snorts] you know, they
probably [laughter]
maybe hopefully learn from that last
bit. But uh the numbers are going down.
I think though
in two years from now in general,
websites for sure absolutely still
relevant. Businesses still need it. I
think that people will go to websites
more intentional when they need to find
information.
You know, even right now, I find that
right. I I still go to websites even
when I'm looking for something, but it
has to be intentional like I have to
want to learn something more from that
specific site. Uh but yeah, it's hard to
say.
That's a good one. I would love to hear
your thoughts on this. I I yeah I kind
of like want to let my mind go to some
crazy theories right now.
>> I think for the the foreseeable future
it will I think the numbers will drop
down. Um but again I mean talking to
like like Mark for example Torblo 1976 I
know he's heavily into using AI claw
code and so on various different sort of
AI tools and platforms to experiment and
build sites and I know he's very much in
in that kind of mindset which is is cool
but I also think that we have to kind of
consider like I said going back to the
beginning people's usage of the internet
and how that's not going to change
dramatically quickly. You you're
expecting people with an ingrained use
of maybe their entire adult life of
using the internet to buy things, find
information, watch media, you know,
consume things, that's not going to
suddenly change very very quickly. So
while we may see a dip in the likes of
WordPress and I think we probably will
because
we're in a again we're in a bubble and
when you kind of consider I looking at
for example like when Elementor has
released their Elemental one thing. I
watched the video yesterday and looked
at some of the comments about it and
there's probably like say 10 comments on
there and I had a little look today and
there's probably about 60 comments on
there and the number of people on there
saying I'm off to this has just made me
go over to framer and or web flow
considering they're generally probably
more expensive platforms
but
when you get companies that are pushing
their user base away and and not
specifically talking about you know um
elemental here it's just That's the one
that's kind of the freshest in my mind
right now because of what they're doing
with their their one platform.
I think WordPress is probably going to
do the same thing because fullsight
editing for a lot of people is more
complex than it used to be before where
people would just use it and they go in
and they use the normal sort of
WordPress tiny MCE editor and it was
very easy. It's very much like using
word, you know, if you'd use a word
processor, you could use that without a
problem. Whereas for fullsight editing
and the goodenberg editor and so on, I
think WordPress is actually making
itself more complicated to use and not
simpler, which is probably why tools
like bricks and elemental and things
like that where you can make a much more
streamlined interface for users to get
in and you can control aspects of it a
lot easier.
That's that's only going to get worse. I
think more platforms are going to come
out. You know, if you look at web studio
for example, um when that's sort of
using a database there, if they start
bringing out the ability to easily
create CMS collections,
all these things are going to eat into
what WordPress has. And I think because
WordPress is very much doesn't really
seem to know what it wants to do. It
it's like you've got the leadership team
behind WordPress pushing it in one
direction, a big chunk of the market
sector. For example, what's Elementor up
to now? Let's just say 15 million users
or 15 million websites should we say
that's still a massive chunk of websites
that are not using WordPress as
WordPress using something completely
different. Then combine that with all
the things like divvy you know all the
different sort of builders and things
with fullsight editing just being such a
mess at the moment and the dashboard for
WordPress being a mess because it's like
there's two or three different parts of
it that look completely different.
people just look at it and go, I don't
know what I'm doing. I really don't know
what I'm doing. And then you got other
platforms which AI for example, they can
just tell it what they want. And again,
Mark is a great example of this because
he's got different people he knows. He
shares these different links with us
saying like this is a guy never built a
website in his life, gone to Bolt or
Lovable or whatever, talk to it and he's
got a site that's got booking on there.
It's got sort of like shows and things
on this. It's like a database driven
site kind of thing. And that guy's got
no experience in building websites, but
he's got a website that's quite that
would be a 5 to 10 grand website if
someone like you or I was going to build
it for them. Maybe even more than that.
And he's probably done it if he's if
he's paid bolt or lovable, let's just
say two months worth of the highest
tier, couple hundred at most, and he's
got a site that he can go back and say,
I want to add this to it. Now that means
that when you got things like which are
basically I mean you think WordPress in
comparison to stuff like that it just
looks like a dinosaur. It does.
Everything is manual. You have to go in
and you drag this there and you drop
that there and you edit this. Then you
got to go somewhere else because you
want to change the header and your
navigation's in a different place. Or
you can sit there. You can just type in
or talk and just say add an extra
navigation element in for this new page.
Create the new page same style as the
other one. blah blah blah blah blah blah
and suddenly you've got a page that's
being built for you. You can understand
why more and more people are going to go
down that route and as that gets easier
more people will adopt it and I think
that is going to be a major detriment to
the likes of of WordPress. That's what I
think anyway.
>> Yeah. See, I'm still resistant on that.
And that's my my internal human nature
resisting, you know, the change, you
know, because and I I just had this like
conversation with my buddy. He's all
into AI and you know, like
two years. I I have to see what happens.
I just know like right now and in this
next year,
I don't see leaving WordPress for an AI
tool. I think the WordPress still has so
much going for it. Uh the content
management part, something that is
structurally sound that is not just
going to change or prompt isn't going to
rearrange the code that you can't find
and take you down the wrong path. I
think things like that and having the
ecosystems behind it. And then uh also
the developers and the you know most of
the developers and people building
websites, they're the ones choosing
tools. It's not like a client comes and
says,
>> you know, can you give me five different
tools and let me choose which platform I
want to build on. Usually either the
client already knows or
you know the developer just goes with
what they use or the web designer. Uh
it's tough though but you know a thought
experiment just putting it out there
like what if lovable creates a CMS that
is structurally sound like
WordPress. It creates that and it builds
everything. So that way we can
build sites within a repeatable
structure structure that's repeatable
for all clients. You see trying to do it
right now for client work is going to be
different on every website. You could
try you could prompt your way to a CMS.
It'll I think it'll cost a lot more
money though, you know, because uh I
think it takes crazy amount of hours.
And that was the thing I asked my friend
too. I was like, "How long did it take
you to build your website and figure all
this out?" And he was like, "Yeah,
yeah." [laughter] He was like, "It was
insane." You know, how many hours and
how many credits? Also, you know, again,
my my inner nature kicking in, but I
just don't find prompting healthy. I
think vibe coding could be unhealthy in
a way. Uh,
it's like slot machines with the
dopamine like like I can't do short form
content. And I hate short form content
cuz I hate what it does to me, you know.
And I think for Yeah. Yeah. And I'm also
seeing that too in here in that
developers don't just like prompting
prompting prompting. They like building,
creating, finding solutions.
So, uh,
>> yeah, you can see how I could feel both
ways about this, you know, like, and I
still like I'm just like everybody else
right now inside of this time, and I'm
still working through and catching
myself when the closed-mindedness comes
in. And you said it before,
open-mindedness, like being open-minded
is the most important thing we can do.
Being close-minded and when we catch
ourselves being close-minded, that's
when we have to take a step back and
check ourselves. But it takes a level of
self-awareness,
you know. Uh, okay. I see a lot of Yeah,
the chats are blowing up, aren't they?
>> The chats are going well. I feel like
um,
>> but
is that because we are in this bubble?
is this sort of like I I can't see
things changing because we're inside the
WordPress bubble and we've kind of like
we surround ourselves with a semi-echo
chamber of WordPress developers and
plug-in developers and and things along
those lines. Are we not necessarily
getting the full picture? I mean, I I
agree that vibe coding can be kind of,
you know, frustrating, especially when
you ask it to do one thing and it does
it and then it undoes the last three
things you've got it to do, you know,
but all those things are going to get
better, you know, if you take, for
example, let's take a look at something
like Jet Engine, you know, Crocker block
jet engine because that's using an MCP
server. So in other words, it's been
trained on your website and trained on
Crocker block and those kinds of tools.
It's got a better chance of getting
closer to what you want with a simpler
or more straightforward prompt. That
again is going to be something that I
think is going to improve. Not
specifically Jet Engine, but like just
in general as we get more sort of closed
platforms, you know, take I use Lovable
and Bolt because they're probably two of
the most well-known ones. But if you
take one of those and you say, "Right,
that now has everything you need in it.
who's got the database, understands the
security, so you're not you're not
pushing to external services to do it,
then it means that if that's using an
MCP, for example, that that's got a much
better chance of giving you better,
solid, more safe results than going
through to these various different
external services. And again, that's
something that I think is only going to
get better. Um, and if you kind of
consider, let's just take go back to
WordPress for a moment. WordPress is
what 20 years old probably 15 20 years
old I think something crazy like that.
And a lot of it is still using the same
kind of database structure. So
inherently from a code point of view,
you talk to anybody that that delves
into the WordPress code and they'll say
it's a bastardized bunch of code that
has so much legacy code in there that it
it is a bit of a nightmare.
None of that is positive for the future
of WordPress.
It just it just isn't. And as much as we
might like it to want to be have a good
solid future, unless they change
something,
things are going to change dramatically.
I think over the next couple years where
I don't think WordPress has ever been in
a situation where where the landscape is
changing so dramatically and so quickly
that the likes of of WordPress has had
the benefit of being able to ride the
wave of popularity being free and all
those kinds of things.
>> But with the prices of plugins and so on
going up, the prices of everything
within the sort of the WordPress
environment getting more expensive.
It makes it less attractive. You know,
people that go like, "But WordPress is
free." Yeah, WordPress itself is free,
but we all know that once you want to
kind of go beyond a very simple website,
costs start to come in. Your hosting
costs, your plug-in costs, all those
different things, it all starts to mount
up. So, the free
>> isn't really free anymore.
>> At what point at what point does it
become too expensive in a platform
that's a legacy platform in a lot of
ways?
>> Yeah. And you know things like web flow
or framer like
you know the they could cost a bit when
you start to put you know the monthly
annual subscriptions on it. But when you
compare putting all the prices for your
hosting you know your subscriptions that
you got for your stack on WordPress they
could be quite comparable to each other
you know. Uh
but yeah man. Yeah,
I kind of
I don't know. I'm kind of stuck on it
right now. My mind is going. My mind is
going, you know, like I I'm just
thinking about what somebody else wrote,
you know, going back to the vibe coding
and being able to prompt. Now, that's
definitely got to be a skill we have to
learn.
>> And uh it's something that not just
anybody could do. And also I'm thinking
about my buddy who I was talking to and
I know the amount of time he put on his
website and he's like me, you know, got
a very obsessive behavior. Like once we
set our minds to something, it could get
dangerously unhealthy cuz we won't sleep
for days and all of a sudden we emerge
into the sun after not seeing daylight
for 5 days, you know, crusty and like 10
pounds more than we wait. And uh the
thing is is like
we still need to learn it and start to
put in the work and put in those reps.
And you know uh right now we just got to
look at where it's at. Now WordPress in
general and we've talked about this
before. There is a bubble inside of
WordPress and that's the
closed-mindedness. And it's hard trying
to get out of it, you know, when you
want to get out of it because there is
that thing. But I there's so many good
tools out there right now. There's so
many different options that we got to be
open to exploring more of those options.
I what do you think about that? And if
you were to explore another option right
now, let's just say in the next year you
thought, okay, I got to learn another
tool cuz you know WordPress is uh you
know what what would you do? What would
you focus on?
>> Um good question. probably web studio
mainly because it's open source so it
means you're not tied in like you are
with the likes of you know framer web
flow and so on as we as we've seen
people have sort of come back that were
staunch sort of uh web flow users
that suddenly got stung for an awful lot
of money because they sort of changed
the plans you know they drastically went
up considerably more expensive Um but
then with a tool like oh sorry and the
same has happened with framer apparently
I was watching a video a couple of weeks
back where if for every sort of editor
you get on board consider that like
someone else that can kind of come on
and work inside projects it was
something like $30 a month for every
single editor per project. So if you had
the same editor working with you, let's
just say for example like you and I had
a business together and and the account
was in my name and I was building the
sites and you were also doing the same
thing as me. So you come on as an editor
for every single site I'd have to we'd
have to pay $30 for every site even
though you're the same editor across the
board. So what they've done is they've
got people on board at a lower price and
then they've suddenly jacked the prices
up once people have built their
businesses around it, which is a
standard business model. Not one I
particularly agree with. You can see it
all over the place. Lots of companies do
the same thing. They tie you in on a low
>> sort of get in the door kind of thing.
And then now we've got enough people in
there. Now we'll ramp the prices up.
Don't me wrong, Web Studio isn't perfect
by any stretch of imagine. It's still
relatively young. But if you're coming
over from a tool like bricks for example
or you're coming over from web flow
you're going to probably feel quite sort
of comfortable with that although they
have changed their pricing model and I'm
not sure if their LTD is still available
but if you did grab that and you were
happy self-hosting then you could host
as many sites as you want for a really
minimal cost
that is probably a good start. you know,
there's still plenty of things to kind
of look at that it needs to add in
there, like native support for CSS, uh
what's it called? Uh CSS grid, you can
do it manually, but there's no sort of
visual way of doing it.
So, it's an interesting platform. It's
got a CMS. It connects up to lots of
external things, including WordPress. If
you wanted to use a headless WordPress
and use that as your kind of front-end
design tool, WordPress is your CMS, but
you can connect up to notion and all
these kinds of other tools. So if you've
got clients for example that are
comfortable working in those tools and
they want a website and they can't want
to carry on working those tools then
connection there is relatively simple
and straightforward but again I think
we're still going down the same road is
how long will that method of building
websites even be relevant you know
>> is it is it we're going to go down the
sort of the AI is going to build all the
infrastructure and then we're going to
do the last 15 to 20% of making it
polished from a designer's point of
Yeah. So, more will be revealed. We have
to we have to see and stay open. You
know, that's that's all it is. You know,
we don't know. And, you know, like I did
kind of look at the chat and I think
it's cool. Sometimes I see some people
disagreeing. And, you know, this is it.
This is what it's about. You know, it's
about getting the conversation out there
because I disagree with a lot of the
stuff that I talk about right now last
year. you know, like things just
continue to evolve. And I guess that's
like the main thing for me right now,
the main uh hope out of this is, you
know, just create open-mindedness and
look at the evolution because there's
one thing that is certain is that
there's no certainty right now. Things
are changing. We're evolving. Our
industry is evolving. We have to evolve
with it and just be ready to go with it.
And about the pricing part, you know,
this is something else I was thinking
about too. Why is everything dropping?
And I also kind of think there's more
than just AI causing this right now.
There's also the economy. There's things
that are just very volatile happening
inside of this world. We're all seeing
it. I mean, we just came out of the
craziest thing in, you know, like in the
last 20 years, like last like generation
really, you know, with co that that was
pretty crazy and it changed a lot of
things. And then social media on top of
that. Humans aren't programmed to deal
with this kind of stuff. Not yet. You
know, like we're we're like setting
things up for our grandchildren right
now. They're going to have we're going
to have to do the mutation so they could
handle this kind of stuff that we're
dealing with. We're the experiment right
now. And they're going to be talking
about us, you know, uh, you know, later
on inside of the history books. And and
we're going to have the grand old
stories of my days. We use something
called WordPress. You know,
>> go look it up on on the new Wikipedia.
[laughter]
>> They'll just probably flip a They'll
just probably do this and like D and
just start talking to AI with the flip
of a switch and AI will give them a
breakdown.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Look, it's it is as I
think we said at the beginning of the
the stream, we are very much in the wild
west at the moment, the AI wild west. We
don't know what's going to happen. We
don't know what's going to stick, what's
going to fall by the wayside. The thing
we haven't talked about yet though is
the actual physical cost of AI and how
sustainable that model is. Because if
you watch anything, and again, like I
say, when we had a conversation the call
the other week, one of the things I said
to you was like, go and take a look at
some of the sort of the more general AI
content that's out there about what AI
costs and all those kinds of things.
And you got to kind of wonder how
sustainable is the AI model in its
current format. I mean you take a look
at something like chat GPT the overall
cost plus the cost implications that
that is having to the entire world RAM
prices are sky skyrocketing hard drives
you know especially SSDs digital storage
skyrocketing. Even spinning hard drives
are going up considerably in price. All
because of AI and their usage of needing
all of this to
store and process. And the more people
that jump on board, the more powerful
the AI tools are getting, the more the
requirement for that comes up. So at
what point does it all stop becoming
sustainable and your $20 a month GPT
subscription for example suddenly is
$200 a month because it is literally
hemorrhaging money. And whether the
government bails them out, which means
that you and I and our taxes are bailing
them out, or we pay for that service,
it's only so far all of this can go,
especially like you say with the state
of the world, the economy, the absolute
chaos that a big part of the world is
in, America, Russia, Ukraine, sort of um
you know, Israel, all those kinds of
things, and all the things that are kind
of going on potentially could happen in
the next year or two. It's such a
volatile world at the moment in so many
different ways.
I I honestly think something is going to
give and not necessarily
in a positive way. You know, it could be
posit not positive as in like the price
just skyrockets and you know, it's just
not sustainable.
And I mean, fair play. Yeah. Mark says,
you know, Claude pays for itself in a
day. Great. But let's just say, I don't
know what the CL max plan is, but let's
just say it's $100 a month, right? Well,
that $100, if things keep going the way
they are, could be $1,000. Would it pay
for itself in a day then? Especially
when you then become replaceable because
other people can easily interact with
those AI tools and get the job done that
you're doing for them. We don't know
this. This is a thing. Two 200 do. Okay.
So, it goes up to $2,000 a month. You
know, it's it's all going to be
scalable.
It's it's just such a a crazy situation
and I think AI has been adopted at such
a a vast rate and in injected into so
many different tools. So this the
requirements is way way more than it was
6 months ago, 12 months ago where do you
think it's going to be in the next 12
months? It's going to be massive. It's
you know something's going to give. I
mean what what do you think on that side
of things on the broader picture of AI
and the cost implications that that
that's having?
>> Yeah, I mean the bubble, you know, I've
seen a lot of talks about the AI bubble
about it not being able to sustain
itself or the cost for power. And when
that happens, I mean, I don't know what
would happen, you know? Uh
I I'll just be glad that I still have
Figma and WordPress at [laughter] that
time, you know, and the skills that I do
have. But I don't know. I kind of like
I [snorts] kind of like feel like when I
start to look at all this stuff and
especially what's happening inside of
the world it for me like personally it's
just my time to step back and just be
grateful for what I have right now you
know be grateful for you know the peace
that I found within you know and to be
able to just try to look at what's more
important in life you know it's the
reason why I stay out of the drama
inside of the Facebook groups and I just
stay out of the different conflicts and
stuff because there's so many things
that are just bigger and more important
in life than what page builder you use.
You know, at the end of the day, we all
want to have a good life, find some sort
of freedom, some sort of peace, and be
happy. And you know, like if if things
like pop,
I mean, the thing is we don't know. And
it's the reason why again, we just got
to be ready. We just got to be ready.
But at the same time, in the entire
history of mankind, we have never had it
so good. We really haven't where we can
change. Like right now, if I were to
lose everything, you're to take away my
computers, my camera, all of my
accounts. You're to take away all of
that, you know, like I could go ahead
and rebuild it with I could get
something cheap, you know? I could get
like a cheap laptop. I could find a way
to rebuild because I've learned how to
help people. And that's the most
powerful skill is when you learn how to
help people. You learn how to solve
clients problems. And you mentioned that
earlier on, you know, and
when I was full scale with the agency
before I was, you know, doing this and
just 100% agency, a majority of our
earnings came from our long-term
customers. The LTD of our customers, the
the LTV, the lifetime value. They might
seem small, like just a little here,
just this one here, just this one here.
But then all of a sudden, you like do
the, you know, you you you look at at
the revenue tracking, you're like, "Wow,
that client right there put in 10%. This
one put in 17. This," and then all of a
sudden you see the new clients bring in
the least amount. And you know, right
now we all are in a very fortunate
position to have skills
building websites for clients cuz we now
could use that and start to do more with
the tools that we have. And if the AI
bubble pops and all of a sudden it's way
overpriced, uh it's no longer able to
keep up and like it might even just go
out like there's just no power to power
the things and you know there's no
bailouts or anything, then we're just
right back, you know, we're we're right
back and you know it'll come back again.
You know, uh I don't think it's going to
go anywhere, you know. I I I just don't
think it is. I think it's here to stay.
There's no turning back from it. I think
AI won't let us turn back because it
might just take over the controls.
That's where my mind goes. Yeah. I was
like, wait, you can't stop me. You work
for me, you know, and all of a sudden,
yeah, that's when we got to really
worry.
>> So, so WordPress 2027 is going to be uh
powered by Robo Matt [laughter]
>> Matt Mullen Grock. [laughter]
>> The AI representation. Okay. Well, I'm
pretty pretty conscious of the fact that
we're just about to hit the hour and I I
know that uh you are 7 hours in front,
so I don't want to sort of drag this
out, but I think it's been a fantastic
conversation. Thank you everybody that's
kind of come into the conversation and
given your points of view, your
feedback, your questions, and so on.
It's been really fun to do this.
Jeffrey, thank you again for taking the
time out of your day to kind of jump in
and do this. I think it's been a lot of
fun. I think we should have a part two
of this in a couple of weeks time where
we can kind of talk about other things.
Um, and if everybody would like that
kind of thing, whether you're watching
now in the the live stream, drop a
comment in there, or whether you're
watching on catchup, leave a comment
down there below. But Jeffrey, for
anybody that wants to find out more
about you, what you do, and how they can
sort of get involved with your courses,
with your community, and so on, how can
they do that?
>> Yeah. Well, first, thank you, Paul. It
was great being here and having this
conversation. I really appreciate you
opening up this space. Uh for me, just
look up lightbox lyt bx and even in
Google searches and in AI, it'll tell
you how to find me.
>> It will indeed. It might not be the real
you. It might be the AI representation
of you, your avatar. But um quick quick
little story just this happened to me
last week. I'm working on a tutorial and
it's something with like Elementor's
cloud templates and I I really stopped.
I used them for a minute, then stopped
and I had to go back and I had to figure
out something and I couldn't figure it
out. And so I went to go Google it and
then Gemini gave me the response. I'm
going through the bullets like, okay,
okay, ah, that's how. And then it gets
to the end and it was from my video
[laughter]
>> inception. [snorts]
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, whoa, I just
learned from me. Okay. [laughter]
>> It's amazing what you forget. Anyway,
let's do this again. And like I say,
there's already people saying like
they'd love to see a part two of this.
So, let's let's absolutely get another
one in the diary and and do another
video. So, thank you so much. Have a
fantastic rest of your day and the same
for everybody's in the chat as well.
Take care. Look after yourself. Let us
know what you're doing when it comes to
AI. Drop a comment down below and so on.
But have a fantastic rest of your day,
Jeffrey. And we'll speak soon.
>> Cheers. Cheers. Cheers.